the Israeli military says about 300,000
Palestinians have left the city of Rafa
since Monday when Israel told them to
move to a nearby District of Gaza the
Israelis have declared a narrow Coastal
strip at alasi to be a safe humanitarian
Zone but the UN says it has no running
water or proper sanitation Israel is
planning an assault on Hamas fighters in
Rafa and has ordered tens of thousands
more residents from Eastern districts of
the city to leave evacuation orders have
also been issued for thousands of people
in parts of Northern Gaza last night a
long awaited US Government report
criticized Israel's use of American
supplied weapons in the Gaza War saying
it's reasonable to assess they have been
used in breach of international
humanitarian law in some instances this
reports from our Middle East
correspondent your land
now now a ghost Town parts of Rafa that
were crammed full of people just days
ago are rapidly emptying out
Palestinians fleeing in their thousands
as Israel signals it's now set to push
in further from the East issuing new
evacuation
orders there's no choice we have to go
to the coast like everyone else Ahmed
says Israeli air strikes and artillery
shelling have caused panic and
Palestinian casualties
Israel says it's taking action against
Hamas in one of its last strongholds
here attacking a launch site for Rockets
fired at an Israeli
city but with Israel's capture of one
main border crossing and another blocked
off by fighting this is the fifth day
with no Aid getting into Southern Gaza
there are severe shortages of food clean
water and fuel deepening the
humanitarian crisis so far Israel's
military is describing its offensive in
Rafa as limited but the world is
watching to see if this turns into the
full scale Invasion that the country's
allies have warned against and as
Israeli tanks and troops await orders
near the Gaza border there's been
another strong statement from Washington
it says that with some of its strikes on
Gaza such as this attack on a
residential building late last year
reportedly killing over 100 people many
of them children in Israel may have used
American supplied weapons in breach of
international law Israel has
consistently denied any
violations and yet the new report May
yet have an impact on plans back here in
Rafa where there's already a growing
sense of emergency yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem and your land yoland joins me
live now from Jerusalem your land what
more can you tell us are there any fresh
updates as evening approaches in
Gaza well we've had the Israeli military
talking about how its forces have been
involved they say in face-to-face combat
in the areas around Rafa saying too that
there were four Rockets fired towards
the Kem Shalom Crossing in the
Southeastern corner of the Gaza Strip uh
where AID has been unable to get through
um for the past few days and we've had
the Israeli military too saying that
across the whole of the Gaza Strip and
the past day it has carried out dozens
of strikes um these have not just been
in Rafa but also in the center of the
Gaza Strip where funeral has been taking
place for some 25 people who were killed
in an air strike overnight Palestinian
Health officials saying that at least 37
people were killed in the latest uh air
strikes um we know too that the Israeli
military has been issuing evacuation
orders for tens of thousands of people
in other parts of the Gaza Strip in the
north uh particularly in the area of
jabalia and that's significant because
this is an area that Israeli forces
previously withdrew from now this could
be a sign that Palestinian armed groups
are moving back and that they're
planning to return there they're
planning to return there yes what more
could we expect from the Israeli
military because obviously we saw
earlier in the week when it issued some
orders for people in eastern Gaza it
then sent ground troops into those areas
um what can we expect to
happen I mean I mean the US assessment a
couple of days ago was that what was
happening in Rafa remained um a limited
um more precise operation not the
fullscale ground Invasion which there's
been uh so much concern about even we
can see though at the moment it's still
causing this new humanitarian crisis in
the south of the Gaza Strip what is
happening at the moment um but really
you know all eyes are are on the borders
to see if there are going to be more
forces uh Crossing in if this is going
to be a complete ground invasion of Rafa
um you know previously we've had Israeli
leaders saying that this is something
that needs to happen in order for Israel
to be able to declare a full Victory um
over Hamas in this war and to try to
bring home Israeli
hostages and uh and your land of course
all eyes are on the alasi area where now
nearly 300,000 people I believe to have
moved to what kind of a humanitarian
situation is there of course since the
War Began there have been serious
concerns about the provision of basic
services on that part of the Gaza
[Music]
Strip yes the Israeli military calls
this a safe Zone says it's recently uh
been expanded but you know un agencies
say really it's anything but uh people
there have not been protected from the
fighting and because you know
humanitarian supplies are so restricted
anyway um they have not got uh in that
location these Sandy Junes uh really
close to the the beach um o of the Gaza
Strip um proper uh sanitation proper
Water Supplies still the same severe
shortages that we're now seeing across
Southern Gaza it remains an extremely
desperate
situation thank you very much that's
your land now there in Jerusalem for us